This lesson is the follow-up to the last lesson. The last lesson was about coronary artery disease. Atherosclerotic plaque slowly growing over time, until it reached critical stenosis. Stable angina, stable schemic heart disease. That plaque will continue to grow, and the lipid core more so than the fibrocollagenous cap. Until one day, an acute event., happens. The plaque ruptures and exposes the lipid core to pro-thrombotic agents in the blood. Thrombosis of the vessel rapid change the caliber of the lumen supply ischemia. That's what this lesson is about. rupture and thrombosis, acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction. So let's start off by getting a high level view of acute coronary syndrome., Now we'll go into details for the rest of the lesson. It is rupture and thrombosis, taking a critical synosis demand ischemia and turning it into supply ischemia. This is important because the only way to correct it is to correct it., This is a very serious problem. The problem is to re-vascularize, to supply blood flow. The patient is going to have the same risk factors in presentation as they did in the last lesson, atherosclerotic risk factors. And now with the acute chest pain or angina, we'll have angina at rest. In the last lesson, we said not acute issue, no acute diagnostics. Go with either anatomic or functional tests., Here in the acute setting, we do want to use acute labs. 12 lead EKG is going to rule out ST segment elevation myocardial infarction. Then, triponins, highly specific cardiac triponins or regular old triponins, can be used to rule in or out a non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction. The CKMB was useful., because it rose before the traditional components. The new more sensitive components have made the CKMB invalid an unnecessary. The best test to diagnose acute coronary syndrome is the invasive coronary angiogram, a cath. And as soon as the patient crosses high risk, they go to cath. Until that, they get worked up., SD-sthagwin elevation in two or more anatomically contiguous leads, high risk. Elevation of the troponin, high risk. If both of those are negative, there is a very complex process to rule out myocardial ischemia. If they fail to rule out their high risk, and they get the cath. The treatment for acute coronary syndrome is to resupply blood flow., So you do that with percutaneous coronary intervention. And you support that intervention with a non-checklist list of actions you might do categorized by the advanced organizer, Mona Bash. People don't like Mona Bash because others use it as an order set or a checklist. So I am appropriating Mona Bash and making it my own with important things., and disclaimers, thus making it monobache too. It used to be that you could only re-vascularize up to hour 12 from symptom onset, which resumed was occlusion onset. This has been pushed 24 hours. It's best if before 12, but it is still okay if it's before 24., And in support of this idea that some reperfusion is better than none, if a PCI fails, you can retry. You can do salvage PCI. You can do salvage cabbage. The point is re-vascularizing does better than not. And the way I want you to think about this in terms of a workflow, in terms of an acuity, not necessarily., necessarily the order of which you do things, but if patients go in to present with acute chest pain, or they're end genal equivalent, they're in the ER, they have pain now. You rule out the highest acuity disease with the 12 lead ECG. If that's positive, it's an issue., an ST segment elevation myocardial infarction, transmural infart, and they go to the cath lab emergently. They get a diagnostic cath, and they get scented. After angioplasty. And you want to fix the one 100% occluded vessel. It is highly unlikely that two separate vessels undergo rupture and thrombosis at the same time., So there's one vessel you have to get. You can then pause and figure out what to do with the other ones based on the clinical impression. Not sick, sick, whether they need cabbage, or can they do it with the PCI. The focus of acute coronary syndrome is to relieve the 100% closure of the blood vessel. Astemi is diagnosed if there's ST segment elevation in two or more anatomically contiguous leads and the door to balloon time., from the patient presentation to deployment of angioplasty should be less than 90 minutes. And if the 12 lead is negative, and as it doesn't show ST segment elevations, you want to rule out the next highest acuity disease. You do that with triponins. If the triponins are positive, you have a non-ST segment., elevation, myocardial infarction. Now of course there are other things that cause the treponins to elevate the other than ruptured thrombosis, but I want to stay focused on acute coronary syndrome, not elevations of treponin. This also goes to Cath and does so urgently., If that's negative, in terms of the spectrum, stemming and end stemming, all that's left is unstable and gynine. But that's a question mark. How do you prove it? Because if it's unstable and gynine, they should go to urgent cath. And so it is possible to cross the threshold of high risk, get a cath, with having negative SD segment changes and negative tripods., If the story is perfect for unstable and vagina, you could walk three blocks before becoming disnic, now he can only walk three feet, and he's suffering the same and genital symptoms. You may bypass this whole next process and just go to cat anyway. But in terms of maintaining a simple work flow, when you get here you have to ask the question, is this cornerious schemient at all? And this is where the chest pain guidelines in 2021 go into a lot of detail., What I would call a chest pain rule out, amidst observation, tropon is Q6, EKGs, Q6, and a stress in the morning, has now gotten a lot more complicated. If the patient rules out, the cause of their chest pain is not coronary. And of course, all along the path of clinical reasoning, you're considering alternative diagnosis., are the same time you're ruling out a acute coronary syndrome. So I'm not going to go talk anymore about this route. If they rule in, that means they have obstructive coronary artery disease. It's also going to be a cath. But it is elective. Usually done right away, but..., yet the idea is STEME is emergent, and STEME is urgent, and just the destructive disease is elective. So rule out has gotten very complicated. And rather than try to make you memorize multiple clinical decision-making pathways of which the Godline's actually say, make sure you have a piece of paper so that you can match the patient to the algorithm and then follow the algorithm. So you're not going to have to follow every algorithm and memorize them. Don't do that., look at those guidelines that consider. And they're listed in no particular order. The really good cardiaptoponance can be obtained every three hours. And if it's negative at three hours from symptom onset, that effectively rules out an end-semmy., additional regular cardiac proponents. I got in every six hours, and negative at our 18 was enough to rule out. Usually followed by a stress test because they got admitted overnight for observation. Use observation units that are strictly for ruling out acute coronavirus syndrome., I keep my card on fashion, don't admit for a full-empatient visit. To help them get out of the ER, use coronary CT and geography, which assesses for stenosis and atomic. It offers a two-year warranty, which means that if it is negative, you do not need to test again for two years. It can be done., without stress, which could theoretically exacerbate a Q-coner syndrome if you put them through stress who's already blocked. And of course it's done to rule out disease more so than in. But it if positive can also use FFR of positive for lesions between 40 and 90 percent stenosis to decide what to do next. That's the caveats in the guidelines I want you to see it but I want you to, not focus on that part. Stress test is still appropriate. This test is for ischemia. Here is a one-year warranty, and any of them is appropriate. If they can walk, treadmill. If they can't farm. 12 lead ECG if it's normal. Echo if it's not., nuke, if that's not, also MRI. It matters if they have known coronary artery disease or if it's a new diagnosis. Known CAD means either obstructive or non- obstructive and then if they've had previous testing, use that to guide. If it's negative, use the warranty. If it's, positive, you should have done something about it already. And if it's inconclusive, if you're going to test again, use the other one. In addition to a good story on stable and ginormous, an angstemy, positive proponents, a stemmy, ecstasyccegmen elevation, myocardial infarction, ruling in by any of these methods, get to the diagnosis of obstructive corner artery disease., makes you high risk and then justifies the cat. All right, so this is hard and I don't want you to focus here. We're going to talk about what you do for a stemmy, for a acute coronary syndrome. First, you have to know about anatomically contiguous leads. That's the 12 lead in atomic map., It's 1, 2, 3, AVF. These don't matter. V1 through V4. These are the anterior leads. So an infarct here is called an anterior MOE., It is profused by the anterior descending artery and represents the left ventricle. You'll see why I put the L in parentheses in a moment. Two, three, and AVF are called the inferior leads. And so, as to say, when I'm not sure,, In this area is considered an inferior wall MI, is perfused by the right coronary artery, and represents the right ventricle. In FARX here, have special consideration because the RV is dependent on preload. No nitroglycerin give volume to support the function of the right ventricle. Need one, V5 and V5., The V6 are the lateral leads. And in fraction here, S.D. segment elevation in this territory, lateral wall M.I. Profused by the left circumflex artery. And then what's not common to the 12 lead is the leads on the back, V7 through V9. You only do this when there's S.D. segment depression in V1 through V4 to inform you, hey, maybe something's going on in the posterior wall., This is the posterior leads, SD-2 elevation in these leads is called a posterior myocardial infarction, and it is perfused by the posterior descending, which sometimes, in most patients, is perfused by the right cornering artery, but sometimes by the left-circ. That variation enables the posterior., different infarct patterns. You're likely to see purely anterior. You're likely to see purely inferior. Less so posterior, but very rarely an isolated lateral. Instead, you're going to get things that combine the territories, like a posterior and a lateral, posterior lateral am I., or since both the left-circ and the LED come from the same left coronary artery, and entero lateral MI. They're all MI's, but I want you to see that the descending arteries in front and back or ventricles right coronary artery and left-circ do the sides. And then what is the, What does an ST segment elevation look like? This is an evolution of an infart on EKG. P, no Q, RST. The first sign that anything's wrong will be T wave inversion. Fliped T's., non-specific, but on the spectrum of ischemia to scar, this will stand in is ischemia. And an infarct is happening, there will be an elevation of the ST segment., ST elevation means that the myocytes are infarcting. They are not yet dead. And the way you get the ST elevation is with the transmural infart. If you don't do anything about it, the patient's going to develop dead muscle presented by the QAVE., Hue wave means infarcted and it will become scar. Later when all the myocytes are dead in that territory you will see only the remnant., of an infarct, QA is alone, mean it's an old finding that's long gone and passed. If you see ST statement elevations, they go to the cath lab. There's also medical management support. I think that this is still very useful as an advanced organizer because it allows me to communicate with essentially every level of provider because it impacts every level of provider., And use it only as an advanced organizer, not in ordered list. You don't do the top left first. It's not in order set. You don't do all these things every time. And it isn't a checklist. You use it the wrong way. It's a bad tool. Use the right way. It works., And to make it my own special, it's two. Yem is morphine. O is oxygen. N is nitroglycerin. The first day is aspirin. The B is beta blocker. And the second A., R-base, yes, is a stenton, Hs for Hepron, and I slid it over a bit to highlight the two of the P2Y12 inhibitors. Aspirin and beta blockers save lives. You give aspirin 325 once. You can't take it orally, give it rectally., Beta blockers prevent ventricular arrhythmias, the thing that kills people in the first 24 hours. They do so by quelling ventricular ectopoe. Nitroglycerin can be used as a diagnostic to see if it's an anginal and used to reduce pain, but in a acute coronary syndrome, reducing the work isn't going to work because this is a problem., by ischemia. Still can be tried except when there's an inferior wall infart. You want to avoid nitric glycerin if you see anything in two, three, or ABF. Nitric glycerin is a preload reducer. The right ventricle becomes preload dependent. Arbs or aces, these reduce the infart size. Improve ejection fraction or prevent it from falling as well., result of the infarct, and now I'm coaching that arbs are better than ace because they're equally the same, except ace causes dry cough and angiodema. On the way to the cath lab, being anti-coagulated or anti-platelated helps improve outcomes of the cath. And so heparin was originally a heparin infusion, but can also be..., little molecular weight heparin. Though if it's positive, you should go with the heparin drip. And if there's a concern for heparin induced from the side of pinia, the volu rootin, a direct thrombin inhibitor can be used instead. Heparin drip, the volu rootin drip. The P2Y12 is given as a loading dose. And if it can be given as IV, that's better than oral., I went in that order because the ones that are controversial, morphine and oxygen, happen to be first in the list. It doesn't make them the most important. Morphine was associated with an increased infarct size and worse outcomes. The thing is, if you have to give morphine because they have ongoing chest pain despite all, all the interventions up to and including PCI or Cabbage, something is already very wrong. It seems to me that it is the need for morphine that portends the poor outcome and not the administration of the morphine. Theoretically, if they're in pain, they'll have an increased sympathetic nervous system drive, which will drive more myocardial work. So it makes sense to me to alleviate their pain so they don't have that, and know that if you need to give me..., morphine after everything else, it's already a more severe myocardial infarction than it would be if you didn't need it. And then some good studies were done where they purposefully overoxygenated patients. There are oxygen-free radicals, and reperfusion injury is the thing, especially now that we're allowing up to 24 hours. More oxygen in the plasma means more oxygen-free radicals and a poorer outcome. But it's not don't give oxygen. At the onset., and you don't know what the diagnosis is, go ahead and give them the oxygen. Then, titrate it very quickly to treat hypoxemia. Don't overoxygenate patients ever. And then the statins, hypotency. And it closed with complications. There's used to be only complications of patients who did not., not re-vascularize. And that's usually in the setting of they came into late after 12 hours had passed. But now, if those who get re-vascularize after 12 hours, some of the tissue infarcted, some of it was saved., The stuff that infarcted, just as if it was not re-vascularized, infarcted, that's going to act as a foreign invader. It's going to summon acute inflammation. Utrophils, macrophages, fibroblasts. And while those myocides pass irreversible necrosis, they end up firing off extra ectopep. Ectopep and acute inflammation are the ways you can remember what happens as a complication by what day., You can recognize the pattern and also the data curves. On any day along the way, there can be a heart failure and cardiogenic shock. On the first day, dying myocytes have ectopoe. It can be triggers ventricular arrhythmias, so you give them beta blockers to prevent., On day three, the immune cells are busy clearing out than a chronic myocytes. And if they exit the blood vessel on the heart side, they get into the wound in a curses. If they exit on the paracardium side, they end up in the paracardium. Since the blood vessels that carry them are on the epicarium, right next to the pericardium, the presence of immune cells., is pericarditis. It's a fibrinous pericarditis. At day five, macrophages have cleared any myocytes and remaining neutrophils from the infarct edge. The wave of acute inflammation happens at the edge towards the endocardium. Whenever there is a rupture, it is found at the infarct edge. The reason for that is the heart is beating. It contracts., fibroblasts arrive at cleared myocardium and begin to lay down granulation tissue. Gradulation tissue is the weakest tissue of the wound of the infarct. And as the heart beats, it can rip apart that wound in the granulation tissue leading to rupture. If it's going to happen, it's going to happen as soon as the granulation tissue begins to be laid down, which occurs around day five., If it is a free wall rupture, blood will be ejected into the paracardium, presenting as tamponod. If there's a rupture of the septum, it'll be a ventricular septal defect. And if there's a rupture of the papillary muscle, it'll lead to mitral regurg. Papillary muscle rupture and septal regurg., heart failure, free well rupture, tamponaut. And then from there, it's actually quite some time out. A month later, after the infart, there can be an autoimmune paracoditis called dressler syndrome. And then after that, it's all about collagen and scar. Collagen doesn't contract, is not nearly as strong as the myocytes. So you can end up with ventricular amulet., and that can be complicated by a mural thrombus. Diagnosed by echo, and equagulate. Complications you need to know, they're testable material, but they're not the focus. The focus is on acute coronary syndrome and re-vascularization. When someone comes in the chest pain, 12 lead rules out stemming, triponins rules out end stemming, and then you have to use the complicated, complex process for rule out, which takes a lot of things in consideration., Those who rule in get a cath, and semi-cath, stemmy-cath, stemmy-emergent, and semi-urgent, obstructive elective. Use stress testing and the CCTA under various conditions. If you have a choice, use the specific cardiac troponins, which can help rule out an endstemmy very quickly, whereas regular troponins take a long time to do that. Recognize the location, two, three AVF,, v1 through v4 and terrier, v7 through v9 posterior, and lead 1, v5, and v6 battle. This is what it looks like when you're looking for. Continuous anatomically continuous leads showing ST second elevation. The absence of that means it's not a stemmy, but the presence of anything else does not tell you what it is. Moanabash, I still find useful. Just make sure you don't start with morphine or oxygen, start instead with aspirin and a beta blocker, and then as they're getting ready to go., Make sure they're anticoagulated so they can get their stent. And then match the complications with the day from infart. That is a cute Cornery Syndrome..