At online medd, we walk you through every topic in detail. So you're ready for the boards and the wards. In this video, we're going to be talking about coronary artery disease. But coronary artery disease is all about his chest pain. So I want to open with that. That is the spectrum of coronary artery disease. And then we'll move into how you spot someone who has coronary artery disease and what to do about it., Alright, so I want you to see that there is a spectrum from asymptomatic coronary artery disease through stable angina and to unstable angina and into the heart attacks and stemmy and stemmy. Stemmy, ST segment elevation myocardial infarction. And I want you to break them down along with certain categories. It is what brings on the pain, what relieves the pain., pain. What's going on with the biomarkers? We'll talk more about biomarkers later. And is there any SD segment changes? And you can generally correlate this with percent occlusion. We're going to start off with asymptomatic coronary artery disease. Someone who has asymptomatic coronary artery disease is asymptomatic. Don't have to do anything about it. This is someone who gets a procedure like an angiogram where has an equivalent of coronary artery disease., has no chest pain. So all of this is going to be negative. It generally represents a less than 50% occlusion. Don't stent non-aclusive coronary artery disease. Stable and giant it begins in the next of the spectrum and that is you're going to have pain with exertion. It's going to be relieved with rest., There's no heart damage, so no biomarkers are elevated, no ST-stigma and elevation changes. This is generally about a 70% occlusion. Unstable angina on the chest pain is going to occur at rest. And nothing is going to relieve the pain. But an unstable and, There's no heart damage. Therefore, there's no elevation in the biomarkers and no ST segment changes. This gentleman represents about a 90% occlusion. The end stemming, the thing that makes it a myocardial infarction, is the heart is damaged, and therefore biomarkers will be elevated. But the thing that differentiates a stemming from an end stemming is the product of ST segment elevation. You can see in advance the organizer way the chart goes down left to right. ST segment elevation is the product of ST segment elevation., And stemming is also about a 90% occlusion, whereas a stemming is 100%. Let's talk a little bit more about this. First, the stemming, the highest acuity of the diseases. This is a supply ischemia. No matter how little work the heart does, no matter how low the demand, there is no supply. Heart is going to die one way or another., another. The only thing you can do is intervene to reopen the block to vessel. Ensign me on stable angina and stable angina on the other hand, or demand is schemia. In that it's not a total occlusion so that if you reduce the workload of the heart, the oxygen demand goes down and what little perfusion they have., have is sufficient to reverse the damage. These only become symptomatic with exertion because the workload increases. Unstable angina and endstemming are approaching stemming with a bigger occlusion and can occur at rest. All of these diseases unstable angina to the right require hospital admission, whereas stable angina and asymptomatic coronary artery disease are taken care of in the clinic and the person can go home., And of course, I didn't say it, but asymptomatic coronary artery disease doesn't have any ischemia at all. So now that you have a good concept of the spectrum of disease from coronary ischemia, how do you spot someone who might have acute coronary syndrome? Where are you going to use a lot of elements of the case? It's going to be the history of the presenting illness. The patient's person history, that is their risk factors,, The associated symptoms and the physical exam. For the presenting illness, you're looking for three things, and they're called the diamond classification. The more of these you have, the more likely there is to be a coronary artery disease. The fewer there are, the less likely. The first is that it is sub-sternal or left-sided, chest pain. It is worsened with exertion., and therefore relieved with rest and relieved by nitroglycerin. And you want to use the proper terminology here. If you have three out of three, you call it typical angina. Two out of three is atypical angina. And anything else, zero or one, is non-anginal. So when you say atypical chest pain, you do not mean., doesn't sound like a heart attack, you mean there are two out of the three of the diamond classification. The risk factors that go into coronary artery disease are those that go with any vascular disease. Diabetes, smoking, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and obesity. These are things you can change. Family history, early coronary artery disease, or early death from a lie, and age you cannot change in as greater than 40% of the time., for a man greater than 55 for a woman. So you're looking for the hypertensive diabetic obese smoker who is a sedentary lifestyle. He was got crushing substinal chest pain. At the same time, which we're looking for, is when the chest pain occurs, is there any dysmia? Do they get presyncapole? Where's there any nausea and vomiting? If these are present, it increases the pre-test probability. The physical exam can be anything., But what you're looking for in a person who you suspect, wild cardiovascular schemian in, is going to be a non-pluridic. It does not hurt when they take a deep breath. Non-positional. It doesn't matter if they're leading forward or leading back. It doesn't change the pain. And non-tender. That is, it is not reproducible. If you push on their chest wall, it does not hurt more. So this is the characterization of a person who has chest pain, is Schemia. The question is what do you do when someone presents with chest pain? Let's talk about the workup. When someone comes in with chest pain, what you want to do is rule out the most severe disease first, the stemmy, acetysthylchymine elevations. You do that with a 12 lead EKG. If there are acetysthylchymine elevations, you go to calf. Angiogram left heart catheterization., and you do this emersently. That is, you've got a very limited time window to get that person to the cath lab. If instead on EKG, there are no SD-Sigma elevations. You're at the next level of acuity, the end stemming. You do that with triponins, with the small caveat. Triponins will peak first and they'll last. So if you're trying to diagnose a heart attack in this, person who's brand new to the ER. Troponin is a good test to use. It is sensitive and specific for the heart, and it peaks first. If you're talking about reinfarction, the Troponins go up and they stay up. And so if you're testing someone in-house who just had an end stemming, which the opponents are already elevated, you can't recheck the Troponins, check the CKMB. For most cases, the Troponin is the best test, except for reinfarction where I use the CKMB., If these are elevated, you go to cath. But you can go to cath urgently. That is they need one sort of now, but this mission, but not right away. If you use the chart and just work your way backwards, if it's not a stemmy and not an end stemmy, you might say, well, this is unstable angina. But really, I lied a little bit. Unstable angina is more complex. Unstable angina is actually the same., chest pain that occurs with less exertion or more pain with the same amount of exertion. So it's any worsening of stable angina makes it unstable. Someone with unstable angina needs to go to the cath lab even though the rest of the segment elevations are not there and the tripotans did not rise. This is a tricky clinical diagnosis that you probably won't be tasked with dealing with. When you've ruled out stemming and end stemming, the question you ask next is not is it unstable angina?, It's, is this chest pain coronary ischemia at all? And you'll do this a lot under inpatient medicine rotations, rule out chest pain. Initial tripona and ZKG are negative, bring them in for repeats, stress tests in the morning. So you ask, is this coronary ischemia at all? And you ask that with a stress test. And it will not be surprised to find if this is positive. You go to cath, but if it's positive,, positive you go electively, which means they don't even need to do it this admission they could just go home and follow up with a cardiologist. But how can you tell if a stress test is positive? Well when you deal with a stress test you just consider two things. There's no modality for stress and it's how you get the heart rate up and the modality for evaluation. There are two ways to stress somebody. The goals get the heart rate up, increase, demand to see if anything bad happens. So the way you do that is either with exercise or with form. Just so you've heard it you can use a denocene or debutamine pharmacologic stress test. You won't have to pick exercise or pharmacology. If you can exercise that is get on a treadmill and walk, do exercise. If there's any reason why they can't use, Any reason why they can't means arthritis, diabetic foot ulcer, amputation, their feet hurt, they don't want to, whatever the case is, if they are unable to exercise, then use farm. For evaluation there are three modalities, EKG, YECCO, and the nuclear. Use the EKG, when the baseline EKG is normal. If the baseline EKG is not normal, use an echo. If there has been previous Quenery Artary Bipast grafting where there is heart failure, use a nuclear. In real life, you're gonna pick whichever one your institution happens to use. They want you to see an escalator in this order, ECG first, then echo checking for wall motion abnormalities and nuclear if all else fails. There are some more details in here we're not gonna go into., which you might be asking how does the stress test work? Well EKG is easy. If there's EKG changes, you're looking for SD segments, if EKG changes, it's a positive test. But echo and nuclear work on the premise that dead things don't move. You'll have normal tissue, tissue that's at risk and dead tissue. That is a scar. And you're going to look at these different pieces of tissue under, resting conditions and under stress. What happens to myocardial tissue when it suffers an hypoxic event? That is, if you increase the demand over the supply, it's like having a heart attack. Heart muscle gets stunning. That is, when it feels that insult, it doesn't move. It acts like it's dead. Things don't move. So at rest, normal tissue is going to move., And under stress, normal tissue is going to move. It'll just move a little faster. At rest, dead tissue, because dead tissue doesn't move, doesn't move. And under stress, because it's a scar and already dead, it too doesn't move. What you're looking for though is the tissue that's at risk. At rest, it's going to move fine. No acainija, no dyskainija, they mean the same thing., But when you stress them and the demand goes up, they get myocardial stunning and they don't move. This is what you're looking for. An area of reversibility, that makes a stress test positive. It means if you go in there in your vein in the coronary vessel, you can push it back to normal. If you don't do anything about it, this person go home. They're probably going to progress towards full infarct. All right, so why do you do a cath? You do the cath because it's going to tell you what you do next. And it's based on the..., number of vessels involved. Number of vessels plus. If you have three or more vessels involved, you're going to do a coronary artery bypass graft. If you only have one or two, it is going to be a stent with angioplasty. This gets a lot more complicated in real life. But I want you to feel that someone who has only a single vessel disease could still get a bypass. Big, proximal,, arteries like the left main, left interior descending or the left circumflex, can be given to surgery. If you have a left main stem equivalent, do a cabbage. Likewise you might have multivessel disease that are really far off in the distance, and that person might get a bunch of stents. What I want you to learn is, through your more vessels, we're really big and proximal surgery. Otherwise, stent. But you're not going to wait till tomorrow to do all this stuff, right? The person rules out for stemming., and rules out for end stemming. You get a stress test the next day, you're probably not gonna give that person 18 hours without any medical therapy. So what do you do when someone hits the door? The nomonica's Mona Bash, the treatment for acute coronary syndrome, Mona Bash C, talk with the C in a minute. That stands for morphine, oxygen, nitrates, aspirin, beta blocker,, Acinibur, Stanton, Therapeutic Heparin, and Clopeto-Grel. Now, it could be Prasogrel, Clopeto-Grel, Pycraguloroor, whatever the case may be, so long that's another anti-platelet. Let's talk about some of this stuff. When the person leaves the hospital, they've got vascular disease, and every person who's got vascular disease needs the same four things. Beta block race simpinar, aspirin-stann. So these are not going to be the medications they will make., most certainly go home on. It will be up to you to decide do they need nitrates and do they need clopidogrel. Now nitrates are going to be for somebody who continually has angina. If you fix them and they've got no blockages in the heart arteries, they probably don't need any nitrates because they won't have any chest pain. But if they have coronary artery disease and they're suffering from chest pain, give them nitrates. If they get a stent, give them nitrates., clopetagrow. If they get a drug alluding stent, one year, if they get a bare metal stent, one month, if they get no stent and just angioplasty, no clopetagrow. Everybody gets beta blocker, asin beta rashman stent. People with chest pain, get nitrates, people with stents get clopetagrow. The things you have to decide in your cute setting. therapeutic lovin ox, Clipidarial load. Suffice to say if they're having an end stemming or you think the pre-test probability of coronary artery disease is high, you give them therapeutic, heparin and a clipidarial load. If you think that this is just a rule out and that they don't have coronary artery disease, you don't need to do that. But what are the other ones they haven't talked about? Morphine and oxygen. Technically, if you have to use Morphine to control their chest pain., mortality increases. It doesn't mean don't give it, it just means they're gonna have worse outcomes. And oxygen, what I coach is everyone gets a little bit of oxygen because whatever little profusion they have going through there, the oxygen carrying capacity can be increased. This doesn't mean put everyone with a myocardial infarction and an anonrobrither and try to induce oxygen toxicity. What it means is when you're initially evaluating someone for myocardial infarction, you can put them on an nasal cannula. If they're maintaining the saturations at 100% without anything, it can probably come off. And then this used to be..., big but is not so big anymore is TPA. TPA, the clot buster, was really useful when we didn't have a large access to PCI. Precertained is cornering intervention, the stent. And what I want you to feel is you give TPA when you're in a rural setting and a cardiologist who can do a stent is really far away. The door to balloon time is 90 minutes. When someone who's having a heart attack., enters the ER, they need to be in the cath lab with the balloon inflated, 90 minutes. If you're going to push TPA, it's 60 minutes. If the transport time to a center with percutaneous coronary intervention is greater than 60 minutes, give TPA. Most places in the United States, that's not an issue, you get them transferred to a cardiologist. Alright, so we go back to our original chart. I said, stay with Indiana and asymptomatic coronary artery disease or manage in the clinic., and beta block erasing in a bit, whereas unstable energy and instantaneous and semi are managed in-house, full dose, separate, clopidogryl load, likely getting a cath. The last part of this, I'm just gonna talk it out, when do you give what and why? If someone has chest pain, give aspirin, straight up, chest pain aspirin. If they already have coronary artery disease and they're already on an aspirin, you can give them a night., to see if it helps. The nitrate makes the pain go away. It is indeed coronary ischemia and you have to decide it is the stable or unstable. You give a beta blocker and that's the one you should choose of the medications they go home on. Except for the aspirin which comes first, you have to choose between these three, choose the beta blocker because patients die of ventricular arrhythmias in the first 24 hours. Beta blockers reduce ventricular arrhythmias and they reduce the workload of the heart reducing., demand. Stattons are given because this is a bust on plaque and cholesterol plaques or causes a disease and hasten emitters are good at reducing blood pressure and preventing remodeling. In the last alchavion, if they're having your right-sided MI23AVF with SD segment elevations, no nitrates, the right ventricle is preload dependent. That was a lot, I know. But I want you to remember is identify the patient's, you might have coronary artery disease, learn to work somebody up for chest pain, and then what do you do in terms of treatment for someone with coronary artery disease? That's coronary artery disease..